

# 1 Automation from CI Pipelines

https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/ci_automation/

Argo CD follows the GitOps model of deployment, where desired configuration changes are first pushed to Git, and the cluster state then syncs to the desired state in git. This is a departure from imperative pipelines which do not traditionally use Git repositories to hold application config.

To push new container images into to a cluster managed by Argo CD, the following workflow (or variations), might be used:

## 1.1 Build And Publish A New Container Image

```
docker build -t mycompany/guestbook:v2.0 .
docker push mycompany/guestbook:v2.0
```

## 1.2 Update The Local Manifests Using Your Preferred Templating Tool, And Push The Changes To Git

Tip
The use of a different Git repository to hold your Kubernetes manifests (separate from your application source code), is highly recommended. See [best practices](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/best_practices/) for further rationale.

已改在 ci pipeline 中新增一环,  将以下脚本加入进去, 这样就实现了 一个 git commit 从而 trigger后续的argoCD 的自动部署 

```
git clone https://github.com/mycompany/guestbook-config.git
cd guestbook-config

# kustomize
kustomize edit set image mycompany/guestbook:v2.0

# plain yaml
kubectl patch --local -f config-deployment.yaml -p '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"guestbook","image":"mycompany/guestbook:v2.0"}]}}}}' -o yaml

git add . -m "Update guestbook to v2.0"
git push
```

## 1.3 Synchronize The App (Optional)

For convenience, the argocd CLI can be downloaded directly from the API server. This is useful so that the CLI used in the CI pipeline is always kept in-sync and uses argocd binary that is always compatible with the Argo CD API server.

```
export ARGOCD_SERVER=argocd.example.com
export ARGOCD_AUTH_TOKEN=<JWT token generated from project>
curl -sSL -o /usr/local/bin/argocd https://${ARGOCD_SERVER}/download/argocd-linux-amd64
argocd app sync guestbook
argocd app wait guestbook
```

If [automated synchronization](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/auto_sync/) is configured for the application, this step is unnecessary. The controller will automatically detect the new config (fast tracked using a [webhook](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/webhook/), or polled every 3 minutes), and automatically sync the new manifests.




# 2 Notification subscriptions 

https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/subscriptions/

The subscription to Argo CD application events can be defined using `notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.<trigger>.<service>: <recipient>` annotation. For example, the following annotation subscribes two Slack channels to notifications about every successful synchronization of the Argo CD application:

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  annotations:
    notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.on-sync-succeeded.slack: my-channel1;my-channel2
```

Annotation key consists of following parts:
- `on-sync-succeeded` - trigger name
- `slack` - notification service name
- `my-channel1;my-channel2` - a semicolon separated list of recipients



You can create subscriptions for all applications of the Argo CD project by adding the same annotation to AppProject CRD:

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: AppProject
metadata:
  annotations:
    notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.on-sync-succeeded.slack: my-channel1;my-channel2
```

## 2.1 Default Subscriptions[¶](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/subscriptions/#default-subscriptions "Permanent link")

The subscriptions might be configured globally in the `argocd-notifications-cm` ConfigMap using `subscriptions` field. The default subscriptions are applied to all applications. The trigger and applications might be configured using the `triggers` and `selector` fields:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: argocd-notifications-cm
data:
  # Contains centrally managed global application subscriptions
  subscriptions: |
    # subscription for on-sync-status-unknown trigger notifications
    - recipients:
      - slack:test2
      - email:test@gmail.com
      triggers:
      - on-sync-status-unknown
    # subscription restricted to applications with matching labels only
    - recipients:
      - slack:test3
      selector: test=true
      triggers:
      - on-sync-status-unknown
```

If you want to use webhook in subscriptions, you need to store the custom name to recipients.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: argocd-notifications-cm
data:
  service.webhook.<webhook-name>: |
    (snip)
  subscriptions: |
    - recipients:
      - <webhook-name>
      triggers:
      - on-sync-status-unknown
```




# 3 Parameter Overrides

Argo CD provides a mechanism to override the parameters of Argo CD applications that leverages config management tools. This provides flexibility in having most of the application manifests defined in Git, while leaving room for _some_ parts of the k8s manifests determined dynamically, or outside of Git. It also serves as an alternative way of redeploying an application by changing application parameters via Argo CD, instead of making the changes to the manifests in Git.

Many consider this mode of operation as an anti-pattern to GitOps, since the source of truth becomes a union of the Git repository, and the application overrides. The Argo CD parameter overrides feature is provided mainly as a convenience to developers and is intended to be used in dev/test environments, vs. production environments.

1 
To use parameter overrides, run the `argocd app set -p (COMPONENT=)PARAM=VALUE` command:

```
argocd app set guestbook -p image=example/guestbook:abcd123
argocd app sync guestbook
```

The `PARAM` is expected to be a normal YAML path

```
argocd app set guestbook -p ingress.enabled=true
argocd app set guestbook -p ingress.hosts[0]=guestbook.myclusterurl
```

The `argocd app set` [command](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/commands/argocd_app_set/) supports more tool-specific flags such as `--kustomize-image`, `--jsonnet-ext-var-str` etc flags. You can also specify overrides directly in the source field on application spec. Read more about supported options in corresponded tool [documentation](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/application_sources/).

## 3.1 When To Use Overrides?

The following are situations where parameter overrides would be useful:
1. A team maintains a "dev" environment, which needs to be continually updated with the latest version of their guestbook application after every build in the tip of master. To address this use case, the application would expose a parameter named `image`, whose value used in the `dev` environment contains a placeholder value (e.g. `example/guestbook:replaceme`). The placeholder value would be determined externally (outside of Git) such as a build system. Then, as part of the build pipeline, the parameter value of the `image` would be continually updated to the freshly built image (e.g. `argocd app set guestbook -p image=example/guestbook:abcd123`). A sync operation would result in the application being redeployed with the new image.  
2. A repository of Helm manifests is already publicly available (e.g. https://github.com/helm/charts). Since commit access to the repository is unavailable, it is useful to be able to install charts from the public repository and customize the deployment with different parameters, without resorting to forking the repository to make the changes. For example, to install Redis from the Helm chart repository and customize the database password, you would run:


```
argocd app create redis --repo https://github.com/helm/charts.git --path stable/redis --dest-server https://kubernetes.default.svc --dest-namespace default -p password=abc123
```

## 3.2 Store Overrides In Git[¶](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/parameters/#store-overrides-in-git "Permanent link")

The config management tool specific overrides can be specified in `.argocd-source.yaml` file stored in the source application directory in the Git repository.

The `.argocd-source.yaml` file is used during manifest generation and overrides application source fields, such as `kustomize`, `helm` etc.

Example:

```
kustomize:
  images:
    - gcr.io/heptio-images/ks-guestbook-demo:0.2
```



The `.argocd-source` is trying to solve two following main use cases:
- Provide the unified way to "override" application parameters in Git and enable the "write back" feature for projects like [argocd-image-updater](https://github.com/argoproj-labs/argocd-image-updater).
- Support "discovering" applications in the Git repository by projects like [applicationset](https://github.com/argoproj/applicationset) (see [git files generator](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/applicationset/examples/git-generator-files-discovery/git-generator-files.yaml))

You can also store parameter overrides in an application specific file, if you are sourcing multiple applications from a single path in your repository.

The application specific file must be named `.argocd-source-<appname>.yaml`, where `<appname>` is the name of the application the overrides are valid for.

If there exists an non-application specific `.argocd-source.yaml`, parameters included in that file will be merged first, and then the application specific parameters are merged, which can also contain overrides to the parameters stored in the non-application specific file.















